NETFLIX PRESENTS
Have some water, honey.
It's hot, we've had a long trip.
Are you tired? Come on.
Sit and have a sip of water.
Of course, honey. Let's see...
Momo?
What are you doing here?
Wait!
Where are you going? Momo!
Momo!
Stop!
Open this door!
Momo! Open up!
Momo!
Some say that everything is written
and you can't change anything.
Open up!
I want to change everything.
I want to go back to the beginning,
when nothing was written.
THE LIFE AHEAD
Can we go look over there?
Yes, but don't wander off.
Hey!
Hey! Come back!
-Are you hurt, madam?
-That little shit!
See you there.
-Wow, so cool!
-Talk to you later.
-Is it new?
-Hands off!
-What do you want?
-I wanna see Ruspa.
-Why?
-I have a deal for him.
-Sure, a deal...
-Yes, a deal!
Look! These are worth a shitload.
They're antiques.
It's crap.
Go play with your PlayStation.
Ruspa!
-I said he's not here.
-Piss off.
-You wanna get hurt?
-Let me go!
When I say no, I mean no!
Get lost, dipshit.
Don't come back.
Leave. No, my bike!
You son of... Asshole!
I'm 12. My name's Mohamed,
but people call me Momo.
I'm an orphan. When I was little,
Social Services put me in Dr. Coen's care.
He practiced from home
and it was always full of patients.
He always thought
I should behave like other kids
so I wouldn't turn out bad.
But I don't want to be
like the other kids.
Momo, where have you been?
I looked for you everywhere.
What are those?
I won them.
Lucky day. You won this too.
I fell off a bike.
I'll ask you one last time.
Whose are those?
Dunno.
I don't want stolen stuff in my house.
If your memory doesn't come back...
I'll have to report you.
I could've paid a month's rent
with those candlesticks. Got it?
Forty years on the streets,
never had anyone beat me up
or refuse to pay me. Never!
Then you get to my age...
and you get screwed by a little brat.
That's bullshit!
What's so funny, Babu?
What shall we sell to pay the rent?
Hold on. You're hungry, right?
Want a cookie? Here, love.
Here.
Who the hell is that at this hour?
Iosif, get the door.
Okay.
Remember to ask who it is
before you open the door.
Hold on, I'm coming.
Madame Rosa, it's Dr. Coen.
-Dr. Coen, at this hour?
-Yes, him.
-Rosa.
-Hi.
Don't be worried.
No, I have good news.
I brought you a gift.
-Where did you find them?
-The thief has come to apologize.
Right, Momo?
You made me fall.
If I'd gotten my hands on you...
Here, go to Babu.
It's your turn.
Sorry.
Speak up!
Sorry!
"Sorry, Madame..."
How would I know your name?
The kids have always called me
"Madame Rosa."
I apologize, Madame Rosa.
Apology not accepted.
Thanks for the candlesticks.
How can I repay you?
I need a favor.
Well, let's hear it.
Are you nuts? Over my dead body!
-Just for a short time, a few weeks.
-No.
A month, at most.
Out of the question.
Until I find him a proper home.
Hold on, you're his guardian.
What does this have to do with me?
I think he'd be better off here,
with you.
Seriously? Why?
That boy needs a female figure.
Someone tough, who commands respect.
Like you.
I can't keep up.
I'm old.
And I'm a teenager, right?
You're my doctor.
You know about
my heart condition and my pain.
-I'll say it again, just until…
-No!
Momo isn't who you think he is.
I know him well.
He was placed with me
right after the tragedy.
I tried, but couldn't find
anyone willing to adopt him.
"The tragedy"?
Go to the living room.
I'll be right there.
No way. I'm done.
No more hookers' kids
running around my house.
I've looked after too many
and risked a lot over the years.
But street walkers
always help each other out.
Better me than Social Services.
That's why I'm asking you!
Help me out.
But you're not a hooker.
I made myself clear. I'm done.
-What about Iosif?
-Forget it.
He was only supposed to stay a week,
but his mother took off.
Luckily, though,
she sends money regularly.
-If it's a matter of money…
-No, drop it.
I love you, and I'm grateful
you retrieved my candlesticks.
I can pay the rent,
but now it's time for you to go.
Will 600 euros a month do?
I still have some savings left.
Go.
Hey.
Hey!
You forgot your thief!
700 euros.
750 euros.
Two months and not a day more.
-I'm not staying with that whore!
-Don't you dare!
-Rosa's a good woman.
-Then you live with her!
Momo, it's either her
or back to Social Services.
I don't give a shit.
Social Services!
Here I come!
Hey, smart-ass!
If you'd talked to me that way,
I would've punched your teeth in.
I was sitting in the café
and I overheard you.
I wouldn't talk to you that way,
especially because you give me work.
It wouldn't be so bad living with her.
No more Social Services
on your back.
And it would be useful
for business too.
Do you get what I mean?
When the old lady
stopped streetwalking,
she started looking after
other hookers' kids to make some money.
She raised lots of kids.
One even went on to become police chief.
He protected her.
In the neighborhood,
they called this place "a refuge."
I called it...
"a shithole."
He'll behave properly.
He just needs some discipline
and affection.
Okay, Doctor.
Now get lost before I change my mind.
Get off, please.
Get off my bed!
-Leave me alone.
-Get off!
Stop it!
Get up. Get up!
No shoes on the bed!
And you, stop messing about
and go study your Hebrew.
I'll test you later.
You, come with me.
I'll set you up somewhere else.
Here it is.
What's this?
Your room.
It's a shithole!
Did you expect a royal palace?
Give me a break!
It's a shithole.
Get off me! Madame!
Enough!
Stop! I said that's enough!
Iosif, to your room.
And you, to your shithole.
For Christ's sake!
I don't even have a picture of my mother,
but I do remember some things
about her.
Her smile when she'd stand me on her feet
and we'd dance.
She loved to dance.
Once, I accidentally made her fall.
But she didn't get upset.
We rolled around on the rug.
She held me in her arms and laughed.
She laughed so much.
She was so beautiful.
Start with these.
Each bag is a dose.
Don't get caught.
And above all, don't ever screw me over.
Follow the rules
and you won't have any "incidents".
Come on.
You gonna hand out the stuff for free?
What about the prices?
Synthetic and natural, 10 euros.
Orange, 60 euros.
Only cash, no meal vouchers. Right?
Smart-ass.
Scram.
-I said "Hashem."
-No, you said "pashem."
Enough, I'm sick of reading.
I don't understand a word.
-I don't want a bar mitzvah anyway.
-Your loss.
But as long as you live here,
you'll follow my rules.
Carry on.
Honey, it's me.
-Hi!
-Look what I have.
Eyeliner, eye shadow, lipstick.
-Almost new.
-How nice!
-I cleaned out my cabinet.
-I love it.
You have all sorts of samples.
Lotions, perfumes...
My drawers are full of this stuff.
Go get Babu.
Who's he?
Hi, I'm Lola.
Momo.
"Momo"?
Adorable.
Oh, sure he is.
Want to trade?
I'll keep Babu and you take him.
My baby! Hello, my love!
Come to Mommy!
Did we sleep well?
You and I will have fun today, all right?
How do you do it?
Acrobatics at night
and mother during the day.
I have to prove to his...
bitch of a mother
that we can get by just fine without her.
What are you doing?
-Not today.
-Come on, honey. Come!
Let's dance!
A little exercise is good for the heart.
Not today, I'm not in the mood.
You're always doing this but I can't.
I'm not up to it.
Come. Yeah!
-There she goes!
-Yeah, here I go...
Look, look! Good!
No!
Give me that. I need it for work.
Please!
No!
Why isn't Iosif helping out?
Because he dried the dishes yesterday.
Today it's your turn.
Here.
What are you doing? Be careful!
Okay...
It's too hot. Get lost.
Go play with the others.
Pass it!
What's that number on her arm?
-Who?
-The bitch.
It's a code.
A code for what?
It's a cover.
She pretends to have a bad back,
aches and pains,
but she's actually a secret agent.
Counterespionage.
I think her HQ is in the building.
She uses the code to get in.
Is this true?
I swear, I saw her go down there at night.
Down in the basement.
It's like a Batcave.
-Where are you going?
-Get lost.
Madame Rosa, I found him.
You talk, I slit your throat.
Where have you been?
Come with me.
-Where are we going?
-Move it.
Hamil, it's getting harder and harder
to raise kids in this neighborhood.
Indeed.
But I couldn't say no to a friend
like Dr. Coen.
-Have some. Fresh from Algeria.
-No, thanks.
Momo! Come here. Want one?
-They make me gag.
-No...
I was thinking that the boy
could give you a hand now and then.
Just to keep him busy during the summer.
Business hasn't been great recently.
All I'm asking is to have him
a few times a week,
not every day.
And only if you hit it off.
Right.
Where are you from?
He's Senegalese Muslim.
Do you go to mosque?
That's how he is. He needs guidance.
It would be good for Momo
to spend some time with you.
Mr. Hamil,
you're the most respectable man
I've ever met.
Madame Rosa...
your eyes and voice
still sing the song of deceit.
Deceit? Nonsense!
And if the boy works hard,
you can give us something small in return.
How much would you suggest?
Good heavens, you decide!
What do I know?
Come see me on Monday, okay?
Nala!
From now on,
the Libertà neighborhood is his.
What?
He made more in a week
than you do in a month.
I've busted my ass for years,
now this damn kid…
Hey! So what?
Once you pull in as much as him,
I'll reconsider.
Now give me the phone and get lost.
This is not for playing games.
It's for work.
All of our clients' numbers are in here.
I'm counting on you.
Yes, sir.
Piece of shit!
Momo, come here!
What's with the shouting?
Hurry!
Come on!
Move it!
What's the matter?
Look! Look.
-What's she doing?
-Dunno. I found her like this.
Like a mummy.
Hey!
Is anybody in there?
What are you doing?
Do it with me.
Are you nuts?
What are you doing?
Can't you see it's raining?
You're the one who can't see it.
Of course I do. Are you dumb?
Inside, now!
You're late.
Grab that box of lighters
and stack them there.
What part of Senegal are you from,
Mohamed?
Don't call me Mohamed. My name's Momo.
What's wrong with Mohamed?
It's a lovely name.
I don't like it. It's long.
As you wish.
I'm from Diourbel.
Near Dakar.
Is it a big city?
Dunno.
I left when I was a baby.
Hey, come here.
Come.
When I started,
I only sold rugs and antique books.
I even had two employees.
Now all I sell is plastic.
Come here. Give me a hand.
Grab this.
Beautiful, isn't it?
Beautiful and full of history.
I've been meaning to get it repaired
but never got around to it.
Now you're here, you can help.
Come here.
In the Qur'an, the lion is a symbol
of power, patience and faith.
Do you have faith?
Faith is like love.
Every Muslim must always remember this.
I didn't even know I was Muslim.
I found out when I used to go to school.
Used to?
I got kicked out.
Why?
I stabbed a bully in the neck
with a pencil.
Momo...
Language...
Language is the greatest weapon.
There's no need to stick a pencil
in someone's neck.
I do it my way.
Momo, what are you doing?
The racket you're making woke us all up.
Babu got scared.
Babu, it was just a lioness.
Lioness? Are you high?
-What the hell are you saying!
-Madame, he's on drugs!
Don't you dare.
Don't you dare!
It's your lioness.
The one I know about, right?
Yes.
But now she only comes to visit you?
You don't tell others that she's come
to maul them anymore?
No, I'm not an idiot.
And you play together.
She licks my face.
-She looks after me.
-Are you kidding?
He's out of his mind.
Momo, can you please step outside?
I come here to tell you
about the trouble he's causing,
and what do you do?
You go along with it?
This is nuts!
-Calm down and listen.
-No, you listen to me.
You keep saying that with my bad heart,
I need to stay calm and relaxed.
Then you put that hooligan in my house?
Rosa, he's a child.
A child? He's not normal.
He's rotten to the core.
It's not his fault.
He got it from someone.
His mother, his father... Who knows!
One night, he could sneak up on me
and slit my throat,
or hurt one of the kids.
-I know what he's capable of!
-Enough!
Shut up!
How can you say, let alone think that?
With everything you've been through...
I just meant
he has his own way of thinking.
I don't spit on anyone.
You're doing me a huge favor.
I know it's a burden on you.
But please, Rosa...
You're a smart woman.
What are you afraid of? The lioness?
It's just his need
for protection, affection, love.
What do you want me to do?
Lick his face every night
before he goes to bed?
That's all I needed, a lioness...
Thank you.
-Let's go.
-I want to see.
No, there's nothing to see here.
Let's go the other way.
Come on.
You go up. I'll be right there.
What are you doing here?
What do you want?
What is this place?
Get out! Go home! Go!
No.
I don't want anybody in here. Nobody!
Get out!
I loved drawing when I was your age too.
Can I see?
You know, down there...
I feel safe.
Why?
Just because.
You can stay as long as you want.
You can sleep in Iosif's room,
so you have more space.
If you want.
Knock it off! I wanna sleep.
Stop it, I said! You'll wake up Babu.
Hey.
-What's wrong?
-Nothing. Don't pretend you give a shit.
-Tell me before I beat you up.
-I miss my mother.
Forget about it.
I want her.
But she doesn't want you.
She abandoned you.
That's not true. She'll be back.
Why are you such an asshole?
Don't you miss your mother?
My mother didn't abandon me.
She died.
She wanted to quit being a hooker
and my dad lost it on her.
I was six.
I had the best years of my life with her.
See? We're the same.
You miss her too.
No, we're not the same. Not at all.
Now sleep. Or I'll kick your ass.
Come on. Try it, chickenshit.
I'm no chickenshit.
I just prefer cooked fish.
Cooked fish loses all its flavor.
Be a man!
Good, right?
Here.
For the first two months. Enjoy yourself.
Thank you.
Come here.
Do you like it? It's yours.
I'm young,
and I've got my whole life ahead of me.
I know that.
I'm not going to bust my ass
for happiness.
If it shows up, great.
If not, who gives a shit?
We're like chalk and cheese.
Careful, guys.
Yes. Catch me.
Catch me!
What on earth are you smoking?
-Strawberry flavor.
-Strawberry?
-Don't you like it?
-Blow it the other way.
It's disgusting. Strawberry?
Smoke should smell like tobacco,
not fruit salad.
I'll never be able to quit.
Because you don't have discipline.
Never have. Never.
Where are you going?
To the bathroom.
Lola lived downstairs from us.
As a man, she had been a middleweight
boxing champion.
People respected her in the neighborhood,
because if they didn't,
she'd bash their faces in.
What is it?
My father remembered my birthday.
-That's good, right?
-No.
I know it's just an excuse.
He wants to meet Babu.
He wants his grandson, not his daughter.
Like hell we're going to Galicia.
When is she coming back?
I'll go check on her.
The two of us versus Momo.
Watch out. I'm going to catch you.
Got you.
Come on, catch us!
You can't. We're too fast.
Momo, I can't find her. Come with me.
You go that way, I'll go this way.
Honey?
Where is she?
Madame Rosa?
Honey?
Madame Rosa!
Madame Rosa, can you hear me?
Hey, what are you doing here?
Look what I found.
-My shoes. Yes, give me those.
-Honey?
Honey?
Where were you? You just disappeared.
What...
It's so hot, she just wanted
some fresh air. Right?
Of course. That's right.
It's true.
Next time tell me, though.
You scared us.
Sorry.
We better go. It's late.
You're pretty good.
I'm usually good at things I can't stand.
-Then you'll do well in school.
-Except for that.
Were you ever married, Mr. Hamil?
Sure.
I had a beautiful wife.
-And where is she?
-In heaven.
God rest her soul.
Don't you feel lonely?
Well, I've got my rugs and my books.
You can't hug books and rugs.
What's your point?
You are old and single.
Madame Rosa is old and single, so...
Are you trying to set us up?
Why not?
Bring her here and kiss her a little.
That way she'll get off my back.
How generous of you.
The problem is
that I could never marry a Jew.
Madame Rosa isn't Jewish anymore.
She's just old.
Even old folks are too selfish
to manage to live together.
Fine. I tried.
And I appreciate the effort.
Madame Rosa?
-Madame Rosa!
-Stairs! They're on the stairs!
Who?
-Madame Rosa, open the door.
-Go away.
-Let me in.
-Get the suitcase.
Go get Lola! Hurry!
Madame!
Quiet!
Momo, what's going on?
She's won't answer or open the door.
Honey? Honey, open the door.
What are you doing in there?
-The stairs.
-Honey?
-The stairs...
-What's going on, honey?
-No, relax.
It's okay. Don't worry, it's me.
-The stairs...
-Momo.
-Momo, call Dr. Coen.
-Okay.
Rosa's feeling better.
She's calm and lucid again.
What's wrong with her?
I don't know.
It could be a number of things.
She's tired.
I need to schedule a CAT scan for her.
To check her health.
The blood, the oxygen...
They aren't flowing properly.
And then...
I have to take care of you.
Me? I like being here now.
Do you think she'll get better?
I don't know.
Maybe we should pray.
I'll pray.
You pray, I'll go check on her.
Madame Rosa, what are you doing down here?
Go back to bed. It's cold.
No, I'm fine here.
Don't worry.
I didn't feel like being in bed anymore.
When I'm down here,
I can think, I can reflect...
Iosif says this is your Batcave.
He's got a point.
In Auschwitz, I would hide
under the barracks.
It was my refuge.
Just like down here. I was your age.
Housewitch?
That name means nothing to you.
Just as well.
Don't pay attention to what I'm saying.
I'm an old lady now.
Come here.
I bought it at a market a long time ago.
These are mimosas, see?
Before the war, my parents rented a house
with a yard like this, near Viareggio.
In the spring, the mimosa trees
exploded with yellow flowers.
They were so beautiful, it made me cry.
I would give up all of my memories
just to keep this one.
Momo, no matter what happens,
I don't want to end up in a hospital.
I'm telling you
because although you're tough,
sometimes even a little shit,
I know you keep your word.
-Not even if it's necessary?
-No!
I know what doctors are like.
They torture you
so they can pat themselves on the back.
They experiment on you, trust me.
I've been there.
I don't want to go through it again.
Promise me.
I promise.
Say it in Hebrew. It's better.
Herem.
I wish I could go to school too.
But Madame Rosa said
I'd get caught straight away.
Because I'm undocumented.
Lucky you.
-Is she sleeping?
-I don't know.
The more time passed,
the more ups and downs Madame Rosa had.
Some days, she'd stay lucid,
and she would be able to cook
Jewish-style carp without messing up.
On other days,
she withdrew into her own world
and would stop talking.
Meanwhile, I'd use this time
to get myself new clients.
I'm leaving.
See you.
How does that tune go?
Babu can play it good. I can't.
I'll miss you.
I won't.
I finally have the room to myself.
I told you she'd be back.
I will miss him too.
But we have to be happy for him.
It's when you give up on hope...
that good things happen.
It's comforting.
Don't blame the AC for this hellish heat.
Careful!
I told you about Les Misérables, didn't I?
How Victor Hugo teaches us
that everything is relative.
Especially good and evil.
It depends on the people you meet
and how you listen to them.
Momo, I know what you do at school
and around the neighborhood.
What are you talking about?
I know the people you hang out with
and the guy you work for.
I know you think they're your family now,
and that it's the best option
for the life ahead of you.
But it's not.
You gonna turn me in?
Absolutely not.
That wouldn't change you.
On the contrary.
I want you to take responsibility.
What the hell do you want?
You're not my father!
I don't need anything from you!
I have important news.
I decided to accept
my father's invitation.
Really?
We're going to Galicia
so he can meet Babu.
Are you sure?
Not in the least.
What did I tell you?
No phone at the table.
It's not mine. Mine's in the other room.
Whose phone is it then?
Where did you steal it from?
Give it to me. Come on, give it to me.
I won't give you shit.
It's my phone.
How did you get it?
I earned it by dealing.
And if you don't like it,
you can piss off.
Momo!
-Momo!
-Let him go.
It's no use.
I don't know how much time she's got left.
But I did the only thing I could.
In the hospital,
Rosa will receive the care she needs.
She can't stay here.
She'll lose consciousness
more and more often.
She needs to be monitored
and looked after,
for any eventuality. Understand?
Yes.
It's the only solution.
I give up.
Nature doesn't know what's best.
It does things without rhyme or reason.
At times, it's flowers and animals,
and at other times, it's an old lady
they won't let out of the hospital.
But I had made a promise to Madame Rosa.
And she had put her trust in me.
Hi.
Who are you?
It's Momo.
Are you doing this on purpose?
I know you're angry.
I know what you want.
I'm not stupid.
I'll be back. I'll help you.
But when I come back, you have to help me
because I can't do it alone.
All right?
I heard about the old lady.
Come with me.
Come on! Let's go!
That's what friends are for.
Make yourself at home.
I was expecting my son.
It's his birthday.
I haven't seen him in a month.
I was looking forward to it.
But his damn mother
never respects the rules.
First, she makes promises
and then she makes up excuses.
It was a shitty day for both of us.
So let's celebrate!
Sit down.
Are you asleep? Sit down.
To us.
Stop thinking about it. Move on.
Here.
Well?
It's all there.
I don't get it. Are you quitting?
Do you know what your problem is?
You don't think
you deserve the respect you've earned.
If you leave, then we're done.
You're done with everyone.
Is that clear?
I'm sorry.
Too much?
-Papa loves red.
-You're beautiful.
Momo, you stay with Dr. Coen. Promise?
-Don't worry.
-Okay.
GERIATRIC WARD
I'll get you out of here,
but no fussing.
I can't...
I can't anymore.
How peaceful.
What?
We have to go.
Good morning.
Will they come back?
No.
-Drink.
-No.
You have to drink.
I have something for you.
Close your eyes.
Who will open them again?
So don't close them.
-What are these?
-Mimosas.
How lovely.
I couldn't find real ones.
This is the most beautiful gift
I've ever received.
You're a good boy.
If you want, you can come live with me.
We'll be happy together.
Sit and have a sip of water.
Momo?
I told you to stay with Dr. Coen.
Wait! Where are you going?
Momo?
Momo!
Stop! Stop!
Momo, open the door.
Momo, open up! What are you doing?
What is going on, Momo? Open the door!
We'll be waiting over there.
When you run out of words
I'm here, I'm here
Maybe the only words you'll ever need are
When you learn to survive
And accept the impossible
No one believes you
I will
I don't know
What your destiny will hold
But if you want
If you want me
I'm here
No one hears you
But I will
When you lose your way
I'm here, I'm here
You run away or put up defenses
When being invisible
Is worse than not being alive
No one sees you
I will
I don't know
What your destiny will hold
But if you want
If you want me
I'm here
No one sees you
But I will
Love needs magic and reality
But sometimes all you need
Is what's already there
In the life ahead
I don't know
What your destiny will hold
But if you want
If you want me
I'm here
No one sees you
I will
No one believes you
But I will
This film was completed
during the Covid-19 pandemic.
The director and producers
thank the artists and crew
for making this film a reality.
Subtitle translation by:
Elena Rebaudengo and Sara Marcolini